---
title: Release v20.1.0
draft: false
date: 2023-08-02
comments: true
authors:
  - fballiano
categories:
  - Releases v20
tags:
  - ZF1Future
hide:
  - toc
---

# New Release 20.1.0

## You should absolutely know

Since the approval of our second RFC - release schedule OpenMage 19.x enters and "patch only" state, it will be maintained for two more years as promised but only significant security patches or regression fixes will be ported to v19, every other development (and we have many) will be focused on v20+.

We encourage everybody to upgrade to v20, it is our latest and greatest and deserves the bit of work necessary for the upgrade (ask your developer/agency, don't do it yourself).

<!-- more -->

## Release highlights [^1]

This is a big release, that's why we decided to move away from the 20.0.x versioning and go to 20.1.x. Since a lot of changes could have some impact on current installations we decided to release some "rc" versions before the official 20.1.0. Tests are more than welcome now but be extra careful with production environment.

What's most important is the removal of all the 3rd party libraries (`phpseclib`, `mcrypt_compat`, `Cm_RedisSession`, `Cm_Cache_Backend_Redis` and `Pelago_Emogrifier` and Zend Framework) form our repository, they are now imported via composer. This was an important step to clean up and modernise our code.

- If you want to clean up your project from all the files that were removed during this release cycle, please check this link for the complete list.

Don't worry though, if you've always installed OpenMage extracting the zip file, starting from this release you'll find a new zip file attached to the release itself, we build this zip adding all of the old 3rd party libraries so that you will not have to migrate to composer or use composer at all.

### Also:

- PHP 7.4 is now the minimum required version and 8.2 is now supported.
- The M1 legacy themes have been moved to an external repository since it's old (and mostly unused) code.
- A great improvement to EAV config cache has been added to v20.
- Support for Google Analytics 4 and Google Tag Manager was added with enhanced ecommerce data (which historically was always provided by 3rd party extensions).
- Possibility to set backend locale per every admin user was added.
- "pub/" folder structure was introduced (optional), to have extra security for your installation
- Massive performance improvement in complex SQL queries (#2210)
- Native WebP support
- Many, many smaller bugfix and improvements

### Things you should be aware of:

- Support for Google Analytics3 and Universal Analytics were removed.
- Support for UPS CGI API (which was shut down in May 2023) was removed.
- Old inactive quotes are now actually purged from the database (#1489).

## Known issues:

The `pub/` folder structure won't work in composer managed projects, because the composer-magento plugin can't manage symlinks inside `pub/` correctly (#1210).

[^1]: https://github.com/OpenMage/magento-lts/releases/tag/v20.1.0
